Recruiter: Can you explain your Resume & Job Matcher project?

Your answer:

Certainly.

The Resume & Job Matcher is a Streamlit web application that compares a candidate's resume with a job description using a locally hosted large language model through Ollama.

The main objective of the project is to help job seekers understand how well their resume aligns with a specific job description and identify missing skills or keywords that could improve their ATS compatibility.

One important design decision was to use a local LLM instead of a cloud API, which means resumes are processed on the user's own machine rather than being sent to external services.

Recruiter: Walk me through the workflow.

Your answer:

The application follows a simple pipeline.

The user uploads a resume and a job description.
The application extracts the text from both documents.
It creates a structured prompt that contains both texts.
The prompt is sent to an Ollama model through its REST API.
The model analyzes both documents.
The generated report is displayed in Streamlit.
The user can download the report as a Markdown file.

So, the project combines document processing, prompt engineering, API communication, and web application development.

Recruiter: Why did you use Streamlit?

Your answer:

I chose Streamlit because it allows rapid development of machine learning applications.

Instead of spending time developing HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, I could focus on the NLP workflow and model integration.

It also provides built-in support for:

file upload
buttons
progress indicators
markdown rendering
download buttons

which significantly reduces development time.

Recruiter: How do you read PDF files?

Your answer:

I used PyMuPDF (fitz).

When a PDF is uploaded, I first read its bytes using

uploaded_file.getvalue()

Then I open it with

fitz.open(stream=pdf_bytes, filetype="pdf")

PyMuPDF parses the document page by page.

For every page I call

page.get_text()

which extracts all textual content.

Finally I concatenate all pages into a single string.

Recruiter: Why did you use getvalue() instead of read()?

Your answer:

Using

uploaded_file.read()

moves the file pointer.

If I try reading the same file again later, it may return an empty result.

Using

uploaded_file.getvalue()

returns the complete file bytes without causing stream exhaustion, making the extraction more reliable.

Recruiter: How do you support TXT files?

Your answer:

If the uploaded file isn't a PDF, I assume it's a text file.

I decode it using

uploaded_file.getvalue().decode(
    "utf-8",
    errors="ignore"
)

The

errors="ignore"

parameter prevents the application from crashing if unsupported characters exist.

Recruiter: Explain the prompt engineering.

Your answer:

Instead of asking the model

"Compare these two files"

I use a structured prompt.

The prompt contains clearly separated sections.

Resume

Job Description

Required Output Format

I also instruct the model to produce four sections:

Fit Score
Key Strengths
Missing Skills
Recommendations

Providing a structured prompt improves consistency and makes the output easier to read.

Recruiter: How do you communicate with the LLM?

Your answer:

I use the Ollama REST API.

I send an HTTP POST request to

http://localhost:11434/api/generate

The request body contains

{
    "model": model_name,
    "prompt": prompt,
    "stream": False
}

The model processes the prompt and returns a JSON response.

I extract

data["response"]

which contains the generated analysis.

Recruiter: Why did you choose Ollama?

Your answer:

There were three reasons.

First, privacy.

Resumes often contain personal information.

Using a local model ensures the documents never leave the user's computer.

Second, cost.

Ollama is free after downloading the model.

There are no API charges.

Third, flexibility.

Users can switch between different models such as

llama3.2
mistral
gemma

without changing the application code.

Recruiter: Why did you add a model selector?

Your answer:

Different users may have different models installed locally.

Instead of hardcoding one model, I added a text input in the sidebar.

This makes the application flexible and reusable.

Recruiter: What happens when the user clicks "Match"?

Your answer:

Several validation steps occur.

First, the application checks whether both files have been uploaded.

If not, a warning is displayed.

Next, it extracts text from both files.

If either document produces empty text, an error message is shown because the file may be image-based or corrupted.

Only after successful validation does the application send the prompt to the language model.

Recruiter: How did you handle errors?

Your answer:

I implemented different exception handlers.

For example,

ConnectionError

If Ollama isn't running, the user receives a message instructing them to start the server.

HTTPError

If the selected model isn't installed, the application suggests pulling the model first.

General Exception

Any unexpected errors are caught and displayed without crashing the application.

This improves robustness.

Recruiter: Why did you use session_state?

Your answer:

Normally Streamlit reruns the entire script after every interaction.

Without

st.session_state

the generated report would disappear.

I store the analysis in

st.session_state["resume_match"]

so that the report remains available and the download button continues to work.

Recruiter: Why Markdown?

Your answer:

Markdown is lightweight and human-readable.

It preserves headings, bullet points, and formatting.

It also allows users to easily edit or convert the report later.

Recruiter: What are the limitations of this project?

Your answer:

Some current limitations include:

It does not support scanned PDFs because OCR is not implemented.
The ATS score is generated by the language model and is not calculated mathematically.
Keyword matching relies entirely on the LLM rather than a dedicated NLP algorithm.
It compares one resume with one job description at a time.
The application currently supports PDF and TXT files but not DOCX.

These are potential areas for future improvement.

Recruiter: If you had more time, what would you improve?

Your answer:

I would add:

OCR support for scanned resumes.
Semantic similarity using Sentence Transformers.
Automatic keyword extraction with spaCy.
Visual ATS score charts.
Skill-gap analysis.
Resume rewriting suggestions.
PDF report generation.
Support for DOCX files.
Batch processing of multiple resumes.

These additions would make the application more comprehensive and reduce reliance on the language model.

Recruiter: What AI concepts does this project demonstrate?

Your answer:

Although I didn't train a machine learning model, this project demonstrates practical AI engineering skills:

Prompt engineering
LLM integration through REST APIs
Natural language processing using large language models
Document parsing
Handling unstructured text
Streamlit application development
Error handling and user experience considerations
Local AI deployment with Ollama

The focus of the project is integrating an LLM into a usable application rather than building a model from scratch.

What interviewers are looking for

When discussing this project, avoid saying:

"I used ChatGPT to make a resume matcher."

Instead, explain the engineering decisions:

Why you chose a local LLM.
How the PDF text extraction works.
Why you used structured prompting.
How you handled errors and validation.
How data flows through the application from upload to report generation.

Being able to explain these choices clearly demonstrates that you understand the system beyond just writing or assembling the code.